README.md, before:

# nfson

***n***ested ***f***ast j***son***

Recursive JSON-parser for nested structs in Golang using [valyala/fastjson](https://github.com/valyala/fastjson).

Allows more dynamic JSON-mapping using subtags to conditionally map different parts of the JSON to different structs.

The built in nesting support in the tags also allows you to have an arbitrary struct structure and still map the entire JSON. 

```
Map(data []byte, obj interface{}, timeLoc *time.Location, subTagName string, recurseSubTag bool, baseTags ...string)
```

- `data` is the JSON as a byte array.
- `obj` is a reference to the struct the JSON should be mapped to.
- `timeLoc` is the location times in the json should be parse for.
- `subTagName` is for having multiple different JSON structures that should map to the same struct. It is an addition to the base `nfson` struct tag, for example: to use struct tag `nfson_subTag` use `Map()` with `_subTag` as the `subTagName` value.
- `recurseSubTag` indicates whether the `subTagName` should be kept when mapping recursively, if set it will look for the struct tag `nfson<subTagName>` in sub-structs as well, otherwise it will use the base `nfson`-struct tag for sub-structs.
- `baseTags` is for "skipping" steps in the JSON, can be used if your struct is only for mapping part of the JSON. Is also used for recursive mapping so that the sub-structs don't have to specify the entire JSON-element path and is instead able to start from the JSON-path of the parent struct.

## Supported types

Values and references to values of the following types:

- `string`
- `int`, `int8`, `int16`, `int32`, `int64`
- `uint`, `uint8`, `uint16`, `uint32`, `uint64`
- `float32`, `float64`
- `bool`
- `time.Time`
- `struct`

## Supported time formats

- `MM/dd/yyy HH:mm:ss`
- `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss`
- `MM/dd/yyyy`
- `yyyy-MM-dd`
- `yyyy-MM`

## Tags

Uses the struct-tag `nfson`.

A JSON-path is specified in the `nfson`-struct using JSON-element names seperated by periods (`.`) to specify which element to map:

`<json-element>.<json-sub-element>.<json-sub-sub-element>` etc.

As an example the following will map `key_3` to `testStruct.TestField`:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "subelement":{
            "key_1": true
        }
    }
}
```
```go
type testStruct struct {
    TestField    *bool   `nfson:"data.subelement.key_1"`
}
```
In the case of nested structs the nested struct will automatically continue from the parent struct tag:
```go
type testStruct struct {
    SubStruct   *testSubStruct  `nfson:"data.subelement"`
}

type testSubStruct struct {
    TestField   *bool   `nfson:"key_1"`
}
```
You can re-use the same common struct as sub struct for different parent structs, for example both a person and a company may have an address:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "person": {
            "name": "test testsson",
            "ssn": 12345678,
            "birthdate": "1999-12-31",
            "address": {
                "street": "test 123",
                "zip": 12345,
                "city": "test",
                "country": "antarctica"
            }
        },
        "company": {
            "name": "test llc",
            "orgno": 987654321,
            "address": {
                "street": "test 321",
                "zip": 54321,
                "city": "test",
                "country": "antarctica"
            }
        },
    }
}
```
```go
type address struct {
    Street  string  `nfson:"street"`
    Zip     *int64  `nfson:"zip"`
    City    string  `nfson:"city"`
    Country string  `nfson:"country"`
}

type person struct {
    Name        string      `nfson:"data.person.name"`
    SSN         *int64      `nfson:"data.person.ssn"`
    Birthdate   *time.Time  `nfson:"data.person.birthdate"`
    Address     *address    `nfson:"data.person.address"`
}

type company struct {
    Name        string      `nfson:"data.company.name"`
    OrgNo       *int64      `nfson:"data.company.orgno"`
    Address     *address    `nfson:"data.company.address"`
}
```

## SubTags

`subTagName` allows having multiple different JSON-paths for the same struct field using an arbitrary suffix for the `nfson`-base tag.

This can be useful if you wish to save the structs to a relational database. In the example below you can receive a JSON-object with detailed information about a car and its user/owner, map the car and any combination of person/company user/owner, save them to the database, and set the values required for the relationships.

The following is an example of a car that has a user and an owner, either of them can be a person or a company.

```json
{
    "data": {
        "reg": "abc123",
        "user": {
            "data": {
                "type": "person",
                "ssn": "0123456789",
                "name": "John Doe"
            }
        },
        "owner": {
            "data": {
                "type": "company",
                "orgno": "9876543210",
                "name": "test llc"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

```go
const (
    userSubTag = "_user"
    ownerSubTag = "_owner"

    personTypeName = "person"
    companyTypeName = "company"

    userJSONpath = "data.user.data.type"
    ownerJSONpath = "data.owner.data.type"
)

type Company struct {
    OrgNo   *int64  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.orgno" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.orgno"`
    Name    string  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.name" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.name`

    // other relevant data
}

type Person struct {
    SSN     *int64  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.ssn" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.ssn"`
    Name    string  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.name" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.name"`

    // other relevant data
}

type Car struct {
    Reg             string  `nfson:"data.reg"`

    UserSSN         *int64
    UserOrgNo       *int64

    OwnerSSN        *int64
    OwnerOrgNo      *int64

    // other relevant data
}

type (c *Car) Map(json []byte, location *time.Location) {
    nfson.Map(bytes, c, location, "", false)

    parser, err := fastjson.ParseBytes(bytes)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

    // set user
	userType := string(parser.GetStringBytes(nfson.SplitTag(userJSONpath)...))
    if userType == personTypeName {
        person := Person{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &person, location, userSubTag, false)
        person.SaveToDatebase() // pretend this saves the person to a database of your choice
        c.UserSSN = person.SSN
    } else if userType == companyTypeName {
        company := Company{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &company, location, userSubTag, false)
        company.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the company to a database of your choice
        c.UserOrgNo = company.OrgNo
    }

    // set owner
	ownerType := string(parser.GetStringBytes(nfson.SplitTag(ownerJSONpath)...))
    if ownerype == personTypeName {
        person := Person{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &person, location, ownerSubTag, false)
        person.SaveToDatebase() // pretend this saves the person to a database of your choice
        c.OwnerSSN = person.SSN
    } else if ownerype == companyTypeName {
        company := Company{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &company, location, ownerSubTag, false)
        company.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the company to a database of your choice
        c.OwnerOrgNo = company.OrgNo
    }
}

func main() {
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes() // Pretend this gets the example JSON above

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    car := Car{}
    car.Map(bytes, location)
    car.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the car to a database of your choice
}
```

## BaseTags

Example:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "subelement":{
            "key_1": true
        }
    }
}
```
```go
type test struct {
    Value   bool `nfson:"key_1"`
}

func main() {
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes()

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    example := test{}

    // map starting from data.subelement 
    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false, "data", "subelement")

    // or use the SplitTag function and write the BaseTags as a string like how they are in the struct tag
    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false, nfson.SplitTag("data.subelement"))
}
```

## Example
```json
{
    "data": {
        "teststring":   "test",
        "testbool":     false,
        "testpointer":  null,
        "nest": {
            "key_1":    null,
            "key_2":    null,
            "key_3":    "not null"
        },
        "type":     "user",
        "user":     {
            "name": "username"
        },
        "owner": {},
        "date": "1999-12-31 13:33:37"
    }
}
```

```go
type test struct {
    TestString      String      `nfson:"data.teststring"`
    TestBool        bool        `nfson:"data.testbool"`
    TestPointer     *string     `nfson:"data.testpointer"`
    Type            string      `nfson:"data.type"`
    Date            *time.Time  `nfson:"data.date"`
    NestTest        *nest       `nfson:"data.nest"`
    PersonTest      *person     `nfson_user:"data.user" nfson_owner:"data.owner"`
}

type nest struct { 
    Key1    *string `nfson:"key_1"`
    Key2    *string `nfson:"key_2"`
    Key3    *string `nfson:"key_3"`
}

type person {
    Name    string  `nfson:"name"`
}

func main() {
    // Pretend this gets the example JSON above
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes()

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    example := test{}

    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false)

    if example.Type == "user" {
        nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "_user", false)
    } else if example.Type == "owner" {
        nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "_owner", false)
    }
}
```

Checking for which subtag to use can be done without a `data.type`-field in the JSON, but it is a bit more involved and requires some manual fiddling with the fastjson parser and tags.

Commit message:

added more explanation of base tags

README.md, after:

# nfson

***n***ested ***f***ast j***son***

Recursive JSON-parser for nested structs in Golang using [valyala/fastjson](https://github.com/valyala/fastjson).

Allows more dynamic JSON-mapping using subtags to conditionally map different parts of the JSON to different structs.

The built in nesting support in the tags also allows you to have an arbitrary struct structure and still map the entire JSON. 

```
Map(data []byte, obj interface{}, timeLoc *time.Location, subTagName string, recurseSubTag bool, baseTags ...string)
```

- `data` is the JSON as a byte array.
- `obj` is a reference to the struct the JSON should be mapped to.
- `timeLoc` is the location times in the json should be parse for.
- `subTagName` is for having multiple different JSON structures that should map to the same struct. It is an addition to the base `nfson` struct tag, for example: to use struct tag `nfson_subTag` use `Map()` with `_subTag` as the `subTagName` value.
- `recurseSubTag` indicates whether the `subTagName` should be kept when mapping recursively, if set it will look for the struct tag `nfson<subTagName>` in sub-structs as well, otherwise it will use the base `nfson`-struct tag for sub-structs.
- `baseTags` is for "skipping" steps in the JSON, can be used if your struct is only for mapping part of the JSON. Is also used for recursive mapping so that the sub-structs don't have to specify the entire JSON-element path and is instead able to start from the JSON-path of the parent struct.

## Supported types

Values and references to values of the following types:

- `string`
- `int`, `int8`, `int16`, `int32`, `int64`
- `uint`, `uint8`, `uint16`, `uint32`, `uint64`
- `float32`, `float64`
- `bool`
- `time.Time`
- `struct`

## Supported time formats

- `MM/dd/yyy HH:mm:ss`
- `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss`
- `MM/dd/yyyy`
- `yyyy-MM-dd`
- `yyyy-MM`

## Tags

Uses the struct-tag `nfson`.

A JSON-path is specified in the `nfson`-struct using JSON-element names seperated by periods (`.`) to specify which element to map:

`<json-element>.<json-sub-element>.<json-sub-sub-element>` etc.

As an example the following will map `key_3` to `testStruct.TestField`:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "subelement":{
            "key_1": true
        }
    }
}
```
```go
type testStruct struct {
    TestField    *bool   `nfson:"data.subelement.key_1"`
}
```
In the case of nested structs the nested struct will automatically continue from the parent struct tag:
```go
type testStruct struct {
    SubStruct   *testSubStruct  `nfson:"data.subelement"`
}

type testSubStruct struct {
    TestField   *bool   `nfson:"key_1"`
}
```
You can re-use the same common struct as sub struct for different parent structs, for example both a person and a company may have an address:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "person": {
            "name": "test testsson",
            "ssn": 12345678,
            "birthdate": "1999-12-31",
            "address": {
                "street": "test 123",
                "zip": 12345,
                "city": "test",
                "country": "antarctica"
            }
        },
        "company": {
            "name": "test llc",
            "orgno": 987654321,
            "address": {
                "street": "test 321",
                "zip": 54321,
                "city": "test",
                "country": "antarctica"
            }
        },
    }
}
```
```go
type address struct {
    Street  string  `nfson:"street"`
    Zip     *int64  `nfson:"zip"`
    City    string  `nfson:"city"`
    Country string  `nfson:"country"`
}

type person struct {
    Name        string      `nfson:"data.person.name"`
    SSN         *int64      `nfson:"data.person.ssn"`
    Birthdate   *time.Time  `nfson:"data.person.birthdate"`
    Address     *address    `nfson:"data.person.address"`
}

type company struct {
    Name        string      `nfson:"data.company.name"`
    OrgNo       *int64      `nfson:"data.company.orgno"`
    Address     *address    `nfson:"data.company.address"`
}
```

## SubTags

`subTagName` allows having multiple different JSON-paths for the same struct field using an arbitrary suffix for the `nfson`-base tag.

This can be useful if you wish to save the structs to a relational database. In the example below you can receive a JSON-object with detailed information about a car and its user/owner, map the car and any combination of person/company user/owner, save them to the database, and set the values required for the relationships.

The following is an example of a car that has a user and an owner, either of them can be a person or a company.

```json
{
    "data": {
        "reg": "abc123",
        "user": {
            "data": {
                "type": "person",
                "ssn": "0123456789",
                "name": "John Doe"
            }
        },
        "owner": {
            "data": {
                "type": "company",
                "orgno": "9876543210",
                "name": "test llc"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

```go
const (
    userSubTag = "_user"
    ownerSubTag = "_owner"

    personTypeName = "person"
    companyTypeName = "company"

    userJSONpath = "data.user.data.type"
    ownerJSONpath = "data.owner.data.type"
)

type Company struct {
    OrgNo   *int64  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.orgno" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.orgno"`
    Name    string  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.name" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.name`

    // other relevant data
}

type Person struct {
    SSN     *int64  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.ssn" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.ssn"`
    Name    string  `nfson_user:"data.user.data.name" nfson_owner:"data.owner.data.name"`

    // other relevant data
}

type Car struct {
    Reg             string  `nfson:"data.reg"`

    UserSSN         *int64
    UserOrgNo       *int64

    OwnerSSN        *int64
    OwnerOrgNo      *int64

    // other relevant data
}

type (c *Car) Map(json []byte, location *time.Location) {
    nfson.Map(bytes, c, location, "", false)

    parser, err := fastjson.ParseBytes(bytes)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

    // set user
	userType := string(parser.GetStringBytes(nfson.SplitTag(userJSONpath)...))
    if userType == personTypeName {
        person := Person{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &person, location, userSubTag, false)
        person.SaveToDatebase() // pretend this saves the person to a database of your choice
        c.UserSSN = person.SSN
    } else if userType == companyTypeName {
        company := Company{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &company, location, userSubTag, false)
        company.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the company to a database of your choice
        c.UserOrgNo = company.OrgNo
    }

    // set owner
	ownerType := string(parser.GetStringBytes(nfson.SplitTag(ownerJSONpath)...))
    if ownerype == personTypeName {
        person := Person{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &person, location, ownerSubTag, false)
        person.SaveToDatebase() // pretend this saves the person to a database of your choice
        c.OwnerSSN = person.SSN
    } else if ownerype == companyTypeName {
        company := Company{}
        nfson.Map(bytes, &company, location, ownerSubTag, false)
        company.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the company to a database of your choice
        c.OwnerOrgNo = company.OrgNo
    }
}

func main() {
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes() // Pretend this gets the example JSON above

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    car := Car{}
    car.Map(bytes, location)
    car.SaveToDatabase() // pretend this saves the car to a database of your choice
}
```

## BaseTags

`baseTags` is mainly used for recursively mapping nested structs, but can also be used for more manually mapping just part of a JSON.

Example:
```json
{
    "data": {
        "subelement":{
            "key_1": true
        }
    }
}
```
```go
type test struct {
    Value   bool `nfson:"key_1"`
}

func main() {
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes()

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    example := test{}

    // map starting from data.subelement 
    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false, "data", "subelement")

    // or use the SplitTag function and write the BaseTags as a string like how they are in the struct tag
    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false, nfson.SplitTag("data.subelement"))
}
```

## Example
```json
{
    "data": {
        "teststring":   "test",
        "testbool":     false,
        "testpointer":  null,
        "nest": {
            "key_1":    null,
            "key_2":    null,
            "key_3":    "not null"
        },
        "type":     "user",
        "user":     {
            "name": "username"
        },
        "owner": {},
        "date": "1999-12-31 13:33:37"
    }
}
```

```go
type test struct {
    TestString      String      `nfson:"data.teststring"`
    TestBool        bool        `nfson:"data.testbool"`
    TestPointer     *string     `nfson:"data.testpointer"`
    Type            string      `nfson:"data.type"`
    Date            *time.Time  `nfson:"data.date"`
    NestTest        *nest       `nfson:"data.nest"`
    PersonTest      *person     `nfson_user:"data.user" nfson_owner:"data.owner"`
}

type nest struct { 
    Key1    *string `nfson:"key_1"`
    Key2    *string `nfson:"key_2"`
    Key3    *string `nfson:"key_3"`
}

type person {
    Name    string  `nfson:"name"`
}

func main() {
    // Pretend this gets the example JSON above
    bytes := whatever.GetSomeJSONBytes()

    location, _ := time.LoadLocation("Europe/Stockholm")

    example := test{}

    nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "", false)

    if example.Type == "user" {
        nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "_user", false)
    } else if example.Type == "owner" {
        nfson.Map(bytes, &example, location, "_owner", false)
    }
}
```

Checking for which subtag to use can be done without a `data.type`-field in the JSON, but it is a bit more involved and requires some manual fiddling with the fastjson parser and tags.
